.TH aarpd 8 "20 August 1991" "Melbourne University"
.SH NAME
aarpd \- AppleTalk Address Resolution Protocol Daemon
.SH SYNTAX
.B aarpd
[
.BI \-d " <capflags>"
] [
.BI \-D " <level>"
] [
.BI \-l " <log file>"
] [
.B <interface> <zoneName>
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I aarpd
implements the AppleTalk Address Resolution Protocol for CAP programs using
Native EtherTalk (Phase 1 or Phase 2).  It communicates with CAP processes
using RPC (Remote Procedure Calls) which interrogate a central AARP table.
Addresses that are not currently available provoke AARP lookups on the
network.  These are added to the AARP table whose contents are aged and
deleted at intervals.
.PP
.I aarpd
maintains the address of the current default router.  This is obtained
from
.I atis
which is listening to RTMP packets.  The default router is chosen by
counting the RTMP tuples, favouring routers that perform "split horizon".
.PP
At startup,
.I aarpd
probes for a node number, determines the network number and
maintains a copy of the network information in /etc/etalk.local which it
updates as necessary.
.PP
The options
.I aarpd
accepts are:
.TP
.BI -d " <capflags>"
<capflags> are standard debugging flags for the
.I CAP
library.  See CAP(3) for a
description of the valid flags.
.TP
.BI -l " <logfile>"
specifies a file that messages should be logged to.
.TP
.BI -D " <level>"
defines the debugging level (an integer from 1 to 20).
The higher the level is set, the more verbose
.I aarpd
is when logging.
.TP
.BI <interface> " <zoneName>"
defines the network interface (as listed by netstat(8)) such as ie0, le0,
ln0 or pf0.  The zoneName argument is a valid zonename for the EtherTalk
connected to the interface.  These values may be seeded in /etc/etalk.local
but it is recommended that both arguments be supplied.
.SH FILES
/etc/etalk.local - refer man/etalk.local.5
.SH NOTES
.I aarpd
be run as "root" (uid 0) and should be started before any other CAP
programs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
CAP(3), CAP(8), AUFS(1), AUFS(8)
