.TH ash 1 "26 July 1990" "Columbia University"
.SH NAME
ash \- utility program to make AppleTalk afp client calls to test CAP access to AppleShare servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ash
[
.BI \-d " <flags>"
] [
.I nbpentity
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ash
acts as an afp client "shell" to allow the user to issue a few simple commands
to an AppleShare (afp) server.
This can be used to test the Columbia AppleTalk Package (CAP) afp client
routines, or to test a CAP afp server (
.I aufs
program).
.PP
Basically, the user invokes
.I ash
with the AppleTalk NBP name of a server which it will attempt to contact.
If no server name is specified, it will attempt to contact a default server
name compiled into the program and probably non-existent at your site.
After connecting to the server, you are prompted to log in with your
server name and password, and then offered a list of volumes to select.
Finally, you enter a loop which prompts for simple actions that can be 
attempted on the server, such as listing a directory (folder) or changing
directories (folders).
You must terminate the program to end the loop (for example, with CTRL-C).
If you are testing an
.I aufs
server, this may leave the
.I aufs
child process running on the UNIX host for you to kill separately.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-d " <flags>"
specify standard CAP debugging flags.  See CAP(3) for a list of valid flags.
.TP 10
.I nbpentity
specify the fully-qualified NBP name of the afp server to be contacted,
for example,
.I "UNIX Aufs:AFPServer@*".
If no NBP name is specified, a default server name compiled into the 
program will be used.
This will almost certainly not work at your site.
Don't forget to enclose this argument in quotes if it contains any 
embedded blanks.
.SH SAMPLE SESSION
This is a typescript of a sample session initiated on a UNIX host named
"pangea" which is running a standard
.I aufs
server named "Pangea Aufs".
My responses to prompts are in italics.
.nf
.RI pangea> " ash 'Pangea Aufs:AFPServer@*'"
abInit: [ddp:   4.51, 31] starting
Looking for Pangea Aufs:AFPServer@* ...
Unix server name Pangea Aufs
There are 3 AVO strings
Entries in indexed string: 3
1: 'AFPVersion 1.0'
2: 'AFPVersion 1.1'
3: 'AFPVersion 2.0'
There is 1 UAM strings
Entries in indexed string: 1
1: 'Cleartxt passwrd'
comp  = 0
User name?
.I farrell
.BI Password: " [not echoed for security]"
Found 3 volumes
Volume Earth_Sciences has no password
Volume Pangea-Mac files has no password
Volume Pangea-Unix files has no password
Returned server: 649031553
Server time Thu Jul 26 15:32:33 1990
What volume?
.I Earth_Sciences
VOLID = 1
.RI > ?
Valid commands are:
d[irectory] - long file listing
l[s] - short file listing
c[d] - connect to directory
g[et] - get a file
p[ut] - put a file
.RI > ls
7 items
Count = 7
README [file 12289, 2], res 0 + dat 592 = 592
Virus Prevention [dir - 320, 2, 4 entries]
MacIP3.03 [dir - 321, 2, 4 entries]
System 6.0.5 [dir - 322, 2, 4 entries]
MacIP 4.0 [dir - 323, 2, 9 entries]
Downloading Tools [dir - 324, 2, 4 entries]
Hypercard v1.2.2 [dir - 325, 2, 6 entries]
okay
.RI > ^C
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
CAP(8), CAP(3), aufs(8), AUFS(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Manual entry by Phil Farrell, Stanford University School of Earth Sciences
.SH BUGS
Should provide a graceful way to exit that will properly close the server
connection.
