.TH atis 8 "20 June 1990" "Columbia University"
.SH NAME
atis \- AppleTalk information server and name registry for UNIX
.SH SYNTAX
.B atis
[
.BI \-d " <capflags>"
] [
.BI \-D " <level>"
] [
.B \-E
] [
.B \-N
] [
.B \-R
] [
.BI \-l " <log file>"
] [
.BI \-k
] [
.B reload
] [
.B dump
] [
.B debug
] [
.B nodebug
] [
.B exit
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I atis
acts as a name information server and an echo server
for a CAP Unix host.
In the traditional (IPTalk) version of CAP, you need not
run 
.I atis
if no program to be run will register an NBP entity.  Examples of
programs which do register NBP entities are: lwsrv and aufs.  
In the Ethertalk version of CAP, you must run atis in order to
discover the network number of your host and keep the default
router up to date.  In any case,
it is recommended that you run
.I atis
in the event you do start to add programs which will register names. 
The echo service, while optional, is highly recommended.  (Note: The
AppleShare client requires use of the echo service).
.PP
The Name Information Service function is to act as a name registry
for the particular host atis is running on.
.PP
The options
.I atis
accepts are:
.TP
.BI \-d " <capflags>"
<capflags> are standard debugging flags for the
.I CAP
library.  The important one for atis is "n" for NBP.  See CAP(3) for a
description of the valid flags.
.TP
.BI \-l " <logfile>"
specifies a file that messages should be logged to.
.TP
.BI \-k
specifies that DDP checksums are not to be used, the field is set to zero.
.TP
.BI \-D " <level>"
defines the debugging level (an integer from 1 to 3).
The higher the level is set, the more verbose
.I atis
is when logging.
.TP
.B \-N
tells
.I atis
to run without installing the NIS listener.
.TP
.B \-E
says that
.I atis
should run without the ECHO listener.
.TP
.B \-R
says that
.I atis
should run without the RTMP (Routing) listener. RTMP is started
only for the Ethertalk configuration. It is used to discover the
local network number, and to keep the default router up to date.
.PP
.I atis
automatically disassociates itself from the controlling terminal
unless debug options are set.  To allow some control over the
disassocated process, the pid is recorded in /etc/atis.pid and the
following commands options have been added.
.TP
.B dump
sends a SIGQUIT signal to the running atis.  This causes the running
atis to dump
its name table into /usr/tmp/nis.db.
.TP
.B reload
sends a SIGHUP signal to the running atis.  This 
causes the running
.I atis
to reload its name tables from /usr/tmp/nis.db.
.TP
.B exit
will stop the currently running copy of 
.I atis
by sending the signal SIGTERM.
.TP
.B debug
increments the debug level of the running server by sending it a
SIGIOT.  If no log file was defined, /usr/tmp/atis.run is created and used.
.TP
.B nodebug
turns off debugging in the running server by sending it a SIGEMT.  If
/usr/tmp/atis.run was created by
.I debug
then the file is closed.
.PP
Examples of valid commands are
.nf
	atis debug debug debug
.fi
to set the debug level to 3 or
.nf
	atis dump exit
.fi 
to dump the database and exit.
.PP
.SH FILES
/etc/atis.pid records the pid of the currently running server.
.br
/etc/atalk.local is used to find the closest Ethernet/Appletalk bridge
(directory location alterable at compile time).
.br
/usr/tmp/nis.db is used to hold the name data base when dumped
.br
/usr/tmp/atis.run is used for logging if debug is turned on without a
log file via "atis debug".
.SH NOTES
The current copy of atis runs with Revisions 10/86, 9/87, 1/88 or 6/88 of the
KIP UDP software for the Kinetics FastPath gateway as done by Bill Croft of
Stanford University. This is compatible with K-STAR 7.0 from Kinetics
or later from Shiva and the gateway code 'Megan' for the Webster MultiPort
Gateway.
.br
.I atis
.B must
be run as "root" (uid 0).
.SH AUTHOR
atis was written by Charlie C. Kim of Columbia University.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
CAP(3), CAP(8), AUFS(1), AUFS(8), lwsrv(8), atprint(1), atlook(1)
