.TH AppleTalkPrinting 1 "20 June 1990" "Columbia University"
.SH NAME
lwpr, iwpr, tlw, papif, lwsrv, isrv 
\- UNIX access to AppleTalk printers and UNIX print spoolers for AppleTalk
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Columbia AppleTalk Package (CAP) allows UNIX programs to print to 
printers connected to the AppleTalk network, or to act as print spoolers
for Macintosh computers on the AppleTalk network.
The four sample programs
.I lwpr,
.I iwpr,
.I tlw,
.I isrv,
are distributed as part of CAP to illustrate this printer access and
are documented here.
The two production applications
.I papif
and 
.I lwsrv
distributed in CAP for LaserWriter printing and spooling are documented
in their own manual entries.
.PP
.I lwpr
is the simplest program of the bunch.
It allows one to send a single PostScript file directly to a
LaserWriter, as a networked Macintosh would.
The syntax is simply 
.I 
lwpr \-p lwname filename
The 
.I \-p lwname
option specifies the name of the LaserWriter, which should be the fully 
qualified network name, e.g. "LaserWriter:LaserWriter@MYZONE".  
If you have your PRINTER environment
variable set to a printer that maps to a LaserWriter (via
cap.printers), then you may omit the "-p" option.
.I lwpr
runs in the foreground, establishing a connection to the LaserWriter and
then sending the file.
.PP
.I iwpr
functions exactly the same way as 
.I lwpr,
except that it expects to send a properly formatted file
to an Appletalk ImageWriter II, e.g. "A-TALK:ImageWriter@MYZONE".
.PP
.I tlw
allows you to communicate with the interactive executive on a networked
PostScript device.
You can specify the device in one of three ways (-a is the default).
"tlw -u <short-printer-name>" maps a Unix short printer name to an Appletalk
entity name via the cap.printers file (often found in /etc).
"tlw -a <object-name>" specifies a device of type "LaserWriter" in the current
zone "*".
"tlw -a <appletalk-entity>" lets you choose an arbitrary object, type and zone,
e.g. "tlw -a frobozz:LaserShare@zork".
You can terminate the conversation with an EOF signal (normally CTRL-D).
.PP
.I isrv
is designed to run as a background daemon process that advertises itself
on the AppleTalk network as an ImageWriter II printer and accepts print
jobs from Macintosh computers, which it then sends to a normal UNIX 
printer queue connected to a real ImageWriter II.
.I isrv
is invoked as 
.I
isrv -P <printer name> -T <base model> [-d <debug flags>]
where <printer name> is the name of the UNIX printer queue connected 
to the real ImageWriter;
the <base model> must be "ImageWriter"; 
and the optional 
.I -d <debug flags>
argument can be used to specify standard CAP debugging flags (see 
CAP(3)).
If debug flags are specified, 
.I isrv
will stay in the foreground to log debug messages to standard output.
Otherwise, it will put itself into the background to run as a daemon.
.SH NOTES
.I isrv
is incredibly slow.  We do not recommend the use of AppleTalk
ImageWriters outside of an AppleTalk network (e.g. use it on a single
cable only).  It is included because it was written before we realized
how bad the overhead was.
.PP
.I lsrv, lwsrv,
and 
.I papif
were previously documented here.
.I lsrv
has been removed from the distribution.
.I lwsrv
and
.I papif
are now documented separately.
.SH BUGS
There are bound to be several.
.SH FILES
/etc/cap.printers \- papif configuation file to associate UNIX printer 
queues with LaserWriter names.  Location may vary according to local option.
.SH AUTHOR
lwpr, iwpr, tlw and isrv were written by Charlie C. Kim of
Columbia University.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
CAP(3), CAP(8), atis(8), lwsrv(8), papif(8)
