.TH aufs 8 "Jan 31 1994" "Columbia University"
.SH NAME
aufs
\- daemon program to establish AppleTalk filing protocol UNIX File Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aufs 
[
.BI \-n " <name>"
] [
.BI \-V " <system afpvols>"
] [
.BI \-U " <number of sessions>"
] [
.BI \-P " <password file>"
] [
.BI \-G " <guest id>"
] [
.BI \-X " <directory name>"
] [
.BI \-A " <application control file>"
] [
.BI \-F " <file type mapping>"
] [
.BI \-B " <IPaddress[:port]>"
] [
.BI \-f " <IP filter file>"
] [
.BI \-[i|I] " <idle timeout>"
] [
.BI \-c " <directory name>"
] [
.BI \-l " <logfile name>"
] [
.BI \-m " <motdfile name>"
] [
.BI \-M " <msgfile name>"
] [
.BI \-S " <n>"
] [
.BI \-R " <n>"
] [
.BI \-r " <readme_path>"
] [
.BI \-k
] [
.BI \-p
] [
.BI \-s
] [
.BI \-u
] [
.BI \-T
] [
.BI \-d " <flags>"
] [
.BI \-a " <flags>"
] [
.BI \-t " <" "Input | Output | Both" ><cmdname>
] [
.BI \-L " <authorization program>"
] [
.BI \-Z " <debugfile>"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I aufs
implements a file server on a UNIX host for client computers on AppleTalk
that support AFP,
or Macintoshes on the internet that support AFP via TCP/IP using AppleShare
client 3.7 or later.
This manual entry describes how to run the UNIX server daemon process.
See AUFS(1) for information about how to use the server.
.PP
.I aufs
is normally started at boot time via a command in start-cap-servers (which
is usually run from /etc/rc.local).
The CAP name information server daemon
.I atis
must be running when 
.I aufs
is started.
AUFS must be run from the root account.
If debugging options are specified (see \-d or \-a, below), 
.I aufs
runs in the foreground to log messages to standard output.
Otherwise, it automatically puts itself into the background to run as 
a daemon process.
The master daemon forks a new child process to handle each client connection 
request.
.SH OPTIONS
There are no arguments needed for normal operation.  Optional arguments
allow control of configuration and debugging.
.TP 10
.BI \-n " <name>"
is used to specify the server name.  By default the server name is
"<hostname> Aufs".
.TP 10
.BI \-V " <system afpvols>"
is used to specify a server-wide volumes file.
The volumes listed in the file will be available to every AFP client.
Individual users may also have their own volumes file in their home directory.
See AUFS(1) for a description of the volumes file format.
.TP 10
.BI \-U " <number of sessions>"
is used to modify the maximum number of sessions allowed.  The default
is around 10 or so (depends on the ASP implementation).  The maximum
value is limited solely by the number of DDP sockets available.
One UNIX process is created for each open session.
.TP 10
.BI \-P " <password file>"
specifies the absolute pathname of a "lookaside" password file containing
cleartext usernames and passwords or to an optional administrative file
that lists valid usernames for use with the DISTRIB_PASSWDS feature (must
be specified at compile time by enabling the option at Configure time).
This option requires special configuration when installing aufs --
see the installation instructions in the source directory.
.TP 10
.BI \-G " <guest name>"
is used to allow "guest" or "Anonymous" AppleShare sessions.  This is
not enabled by default, as it is a security violation unless it is
done in a very controlled fashion.  In particular, <guest name> should be
the username of a UNIX account with very limited privilege and volume
access.  A common account used for this purpose is "nobody".  For guest
sessions, no user volumes file is allowed or read.
.TP 10
.BI \-X " <directory name>"
is used to allow access control for 
.I lwsrv.
.I Lwsrv
requires the same option in order to enable the access control
(this option must be specified at compile time by enabling the
LWSRV_AUFS_SECURITY option at Configure time).
The directory specified will be used to store temporary information
used to authenticate the user. It is not uncommon to use /tmp as
the directory, although it is probably much better to use a separate
directory.
.I aufs
will normally remove the temporary files, but if the directory used
is not /tmp, something should be run that will remove all the files
within that directory when the machine is starting up.
.TP 10
.BI \-A " <application control file>"
allows the maximum number of times an application may be opened to be
controlled (this option must be specified at compile time by enabling
the APPLICATION_MANAGER option at Configure time). The control file
lists the full path to each Application data fork followed by a colon ':'
and a number. An optional trailing 'P' may be added to protect the Application
from Finder copying. For more details, see contrib/AppManager/README.
.TP 10
.BI \-F " <file type mapping>"
specifies a global file which maps a UNIX file suffix into a Mac Type and
Creator (this option must be specified at compile time by enabling the
USR_FILE_TYPES option at Configure time). The mapping file also indicates
the type of data translation to be used and a specific comment string. A
user may over-ride these mappings by having a .afpfile (or afpfile) file
in their home directory.
.TP 10
.BI \-T
enables AppleShareIP (AFP via TCP/IP) support in
.I aufs.
Note that the first
.I aufs
process defaults to the well-know port number 548. Subsequent incarnations
of
.I aufs
will require that the TCP/IP port number be specified using the \-B option.
Clients needing to connect to these servers, that are not also connected to
the same network via AppleTalk, must specify the port number in
the dialog box obtained by clicking on the Chooser "Server IP Address..."
button. The format is the same as for the \-B option, ie: 128.250.1.21:2169
to use port number 2169 on host 128.250.1.21.
.TP 10
.BI \-B " <IPaddress[:port]>"
tells
.I aufs
to listen for TCP/IP connections at the specified IP address and optional
port (defaults to any available interface address and port number 548).
This option implies \-T.
.TP 10
.BI \-f " <IP filter file>"
specifies the pathname of a file containing yes/no permissions for client
IP numbers or subnets wishing to connect using AFP via TCP/IP. See the file
cap60/etc/aufsIPFilter for details.
.TP 10
.BI \-c " <directory name>"
specifies a directory where
.I aufs
can put coredumps.  Hopefully, you won't see any coredumps.
.TP 10
.BI \-l " <logfile name>"
can be used to specify the path name of a file for logging messages.
The default log file is a file with the name <server name>.log
(see -n option) in the current working directory where 
.I aufs
is started.   There is no way to turn off logging.
.TP 10
.BI \-m " <motdfile name>"
specifies the path name of a file which contains a "message of the day" to
be displayed when an AFP 2.1 compatible client connects to the server.
.TP 10
.BI \-M " <msgfile name>"
specifies the path name of a file which contains a message to be sent to
all connected (and AFP 2.1 compatible) clients when the parent AUFS process
is sent an URG signal.  Typically used for "the server will be unavailable"
messages.
.TP 10
.BI \-S " <n>"
is used to specify the number of packets the server is allowed to send in
each ATP response to the client,
where <n> can vary from 1 to 8.
This controls the flow rate for data sent from the server to the client.
It may be required when the UNIX host system sends back to back
packets at a faster rate than the target system or intervening gateways
can accept.
The default value is installation dependent (see LOCAL CONFIGURATION, below).
.TP 10
.BI \-R " <n>"
is used to specify to the client the number of packets he is allowed to
send in each ATP response to the server, where <n> can vary from 1 to 8.
This controls the flow rate for data sent from the client to the server.
It may be required when the UNIX host system cannot process received
back to back packets (due to speed or buffer space limitations)
as fast as the remote system or intervening gateways can send them.
The default value is installation dependent (see LOCAL CONFIGURATION, below).
.TP 10
.BI \-r " <readme_path>"
is used to specify a README file (full path name) to be linked into the top
level directory of a new AUFS user. For example: to explain the purpose of
.finderinfo and .resource directories and/or any local configuration
settings (this option must be specified at compile time by enabling the
AUFS_README option at Configure time).
.TP 10
.BI \-[i|I] " <idle_time>"
sets an AUFS idle timeout, after which the AUFS session will begin to
close down, sending warning messages at the 5, 3 and 1 minute marks.
Any access to the server volume from the 5 minute mark onward will 
reset the timeout and send a "no longer shutting down" message to the
Macintosh.  The \-i flag specifies that timeouts are for GUEST
connections only, \-I specifies everyone. The <idle_time> field is
measured in minutes (this option must be specified at compile time by
enabling the AUFS_IDLE_TIMEOUT option at Configure time).
.TP 10
.BI \-u
tells the AUFS server not offer volumes specified in the afpvols file
of the user's home directory. For use when the directories are NFS mounted
or the server has a specific/special function.
.TP 10
.BI \-k
specifies that DDP checksums are not to be used, the field is set to zero.
.TP 10
.BI \-p
is used to tell AFP 2.1 compatible Macintosh clients to not save the user's
password in long term storage.
.TP 10
.BI \-L "<authorization program>"
is used to specify a full path name to an external authorization program.
The program is passed the AppleTalk network number, node number and name of
the client and the AUFS server name, in that order.  The program should
return 0 to authorize the user and non-zero to deny access.  An
unsuccessful attempt is treated in the same way as "user unknown" or
"login disabled".  This option may also be used to log server connections
(this option must be specified at compile time by enabling the
LOGIN_AUTH_PROG option at Configure time).
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-Z "<debugfile>"
is used to specify the name of the output file to use for detailed debugging
of AFP commands (this option must be specified at compile time by enabling
the DEBUG_AFP_CMD option at Configure time).
.TP 10
.B \-s
tells 
.I aufs
to report usage statistics such as system time use and
number of times encountered for the various AFP commands.
These statistics are recorded in the log file at the end of a run.
.TP 10
.BI \-d " <flags>"
specifies debugging flags for the cap libraries.  See cap(3) for a
list of valid flags.
.TP 10
.BI \-a " <flags>"
specifies debugging flags for 
.I aufs.  
Valid values (case independent) include
.I DeskTop
for desktop management, 
.I Directory
for directory calls, 
.I Enumerate
for enumerate calls,
.I File
for file calls, 
.I Fork
for fork calls, 
.I OS
for os
dependent debugging,
.I Server
for a trace of calls,
.I Unix
for unix level debugging,
.I Volume
for volume debugging,
.I debug
to mark as debugging (keeps 
.I aufs 
from backgrounding if no other debug flags are set), and
.I All
for all of the above.
A list of multiple options should be separated by blanks and enclosed in quotes.
You can also set the environment variable AUFSDEBUG to hold these values.
.TP 10
.BI \-t " <" "Input | Output | Both" ><cmdname>
specifies that packets traces (partial dumps) of the specified
AFP commands should be done, for input, output, or both (can be 
abbreviated to first character).
For example, to trace all Enumerate packets received by 
.I aufs 
you would specify 
.I \-t IEnumerate
A list of multiple options should be enclosed in quotes.
You can also set the environment variable AUFSTRACE to hold these values.
.SH SIGNALS
.I aufs
operates by forking off a child process to deal with each session.
Child processes will take the SIGHUP signal to mean that the process 
should quit after sending a termination notice to the remote client,
SIGTERM to mean that it should initiate a shutdown in 5 minutes, with
termination messages to the remote client at odd minute intervals and
SIGURG to mean that a message is to be read from the specified file (the -M
option) and sent to the remote client.
WARNING: it is possible to catch
.I aufs
in a state where it is in a critical section that should not have been
interrupted and the actions taken in the signal handlers are not legal.
.PP
If your system has process groups implemented, then signals to the parent
(master)
.I aufs
daemon have these effects:
.TP 15
.B SIGHUP
If the parent process receives SIGHUP, it will send a SIGHUP to all children
and terminate immediately.
.TP 15
.B SIGTERM
If the parent process receives SIGTERM, it will send SIGTERM to all children
and shutdown after a little over 5 minutes.
.TP 15
.B SIGURG
If the parent process receives a SIGURG, it will send SIGURG to all children
who will then collect and display an advisory message from the specified file.
.TP 15
.B SIGUSR1
If the parent process receives SIGUSR1, it will re-read the global afpvols
volume configuration file (this option requires that REREAD_AFPVOLS be
defined at configuration time).
.TP 15
.B SIGUSR2
Sending a SIGUSR2 signal to the AUFS parent process causes it to close and
then reopen the specified log file. This allows log files to be truncated
at intervals (this option requires that CLOSE_LOG_SIG be used to define
the signal name - default SIGUSR2 - at configuration time).
.SH LOCAL CONFIGURATION
.br
.sp
.SH BUGS AND NOTES
There are no known bugs in the code, but it is recognized that the DeskTop
management is less than optimial.
.PP
If the client does not execute the correct unmounting or shutdown sequence,
the aufs child process can be left running and will need to be 
removed by the system administrator.
.PP
Notes and warnings pertaining to client use and file system implementation
are documented in AUFS(1).
.SH AUTHOR
AUFS was written by Bill Schilit, Computer Science Deparment and
Charlie C. Kim, User Services, Columbia University.
.SH SEE ALSO
AUFS(1), CAP(3), CAP(8), atis(8)
