.\" troff -man
.TH AUFSMKKEY 8L "Jun 20 1995" "AUFS Distributed Passwords"
.SH NAME
aufsmkkey \- AUFS distributed password global key tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aufsmkkey
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I aufsmkkey
is the administrative tool used to create or edit the global key file
used for AUFS Randnum or 2-Way Randnum user authentication (this replaces
the current AUFS authentication code which uses cleartext passwords). This
feature must be enabled in CAP AUFS by defining DISTRIB_PASSWDS at CAP
configuration time.
.sp
.I aufsmkkey
must be run by the UNIX superuser.
.sp
The global key is kept in the file /usr/local/lib/cap/afppass
(or an alternate file defined by AFP_DISTPW_FILE) and is used to encrypt
the contents of each user password file. The global file also stores default
values for password expiry (either an expiry period up to 10 years
or a global cutoff date), minimum AUFS password length and maximum failed
login attempts. This file is also encrypted and is expected to be owned by
user root and set to mode 0600.
.sp
User password files are created or edited by the
.I aufsmkusr
tool and are normally kept in ~user/.afppass, set to mode 0600 and owned by
the user. The location and mode of the user password file may be customised
at compile time using the defines AFP_DISTPW_PATH and AFP_DISTPW_MODE
(useful, for example, if user home directories are mounted via NFS from
another machine). The user password files contain the current password
expiry date, minimum password length, maximum failed login attempts (all
can be set to zero to disable the feature), number of failed login attempts
and the user's AUFS password.
.sp
AUFS passwords can only be altered by the user using the AppleShare
Workstation software (using the 'Set Password' button in the AppleShare
login dialog box). The software will not permit the new password to be
identical to the old password or to be the same as the user's UNIX
password.
.sp
The minimum password length may be set to values between 0 (disabled) and 8.
Maximum failed login attempts to between 0 (disabled) and 255.
.sp
The expiry date may be set to a period measured in days or months, for
example: 60d, 60, 2m are equivalent input values or to a specific date
using a string of the form YY/MM/DD and an optional HH:MM:SS. EG:
95/06/20 16:44:55 is Tuesday June 20, 1995 at 4:44:55pm.
.sp
When the password has expired, the AppleShare user may still connect, but
the only command available is 'Set Password'. If the maximum number of login
failures have occurred, the user is advised that the account has been
disabled and to contact the server administrator.
.sp
.SH FILES
~/.afppass - user password file.
.br
/usr/local/lib/cap/afppass - global key file.
.SH SEE ALSO
aufsmkusr(8), CAP (Columbia AppleTalk Package)
.SH AUTHOR
djh\@munnari.OZ.AU, June 1995.
.SH NOTICE
Copyright (c) 1995, The University of Melbourne.
