.TH CAP 3 "24 July 1990" "Columbia University"
.SH NAME
libcap \- base CAP networking library 
.br
libafpc \- afp client protocol library
.br
libafp \- afp support routines
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I libcap
is the library of routines that implement a large subset of the
AppleTalk protocols.  There are two different
LAP delivery mechanisms for CAP: IPTalk and Ethertalk (possibly using
UAB). For a discussion
of the differences, and details on configuring the CAP system,
see CAP(8).
.PP
The architecture of
the CAP AppleTalk protocol implementation is fairly simple.  At the
lowest layer, the various LAP mechanisms provide DDP support.
On top of the DDP layer, ATP and NBP provide the basic transport and
name binding functionality.  ASP, PAP, and the parts of ZIP that are
implemented are layered on top of ATP.
.PP
The protocols are not run automatically.  Programs are responsible for
giving up the cpu at regular intervals by a call to a "sleep" routine
(abSleep) to allow the
protocols to run.  The various protocols will schedule two kinds of
events that can be run.  The first is a "packet ready" event that
indicates input is ready on a particular socket.  The second is a
"timeout" event.  Note:  a "packet ready" event takes precendent over a
"timeout" event.  These events are handled by calling handler
routines that run fairly quickly and without blocking.  See
doc/sched.notes in the source directory for futher information.
.PP
The afp client protocols are in
.I libafpc.
The library
.I libafp
provides a
set of support routines for AFP client and server programs.
.SH DEBUG FLAGS
The following standard CAP debugging flags are provided by the abmisc
.I "dbugarg"
routine.
.nf
	d - DDP
	a - ATP
	n - NBP
	p - PAP
	s - ASP
	k - Scheduler
	v - Version
.fi
The following flags are also accepted, but are not used.
.nf
	i - Initialization code
	l - LAP
.fi
The version flag prints details about the CAP release and current patch
level, together with a string describing the low level delivery method.
.SH SEE ALSO
CAP(8), AUFS(8), atis(8), atprint(1), atlook(1)
.PP
See the following files in the source code directory for CAP:
.nf
.ta \w'doc/sched.notes  	'u
doc/abmisc.doc	miscellaneous routines
doc/asp.notes	asp notes
doc/atp.notes	atp notes
doc/cap.notes	general notes
doc/nbp.ext	nbp extensions for unix
doc/pap.notes	pap notes
doc/sched.notes	protocol scheduler notes
.fi
