.TH cvt2apple 1 "24 July 1990" "Columbia University"
.SH NAME
cvt2apple, cvt2cap \- convert CAP AUFS files to and from Apple standard file formats.
.SH SYNTAX
.BR cvt2apple " [" \-d ] 
.I cap-file apple-file
.PP
.B cvt2cap
.I apple-file cap-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cvt2apple
converts CAP AUFS format files to 
Apple-Single or Apple-Double format files suitable
for launching by the A/UX
.I launch
program.
.I cvt2cap 
converts Apple single and/or Apple-Double files to CAP AUFS format files.
.PP
A CAP AUFS file consists of three parts: the data fork, which is
the file which has same name as the whole CAP file; the resource fork
which is a file with the same name as the data fork but located
in a subdirectory called ".resource" of the directory in which the
data fork is located; and the finder information, located in a subdirectory
called ".finderinfo".
.PP
An Apple-Single format file contains all this information in a single file
using a standard format (see the A/UX Release Notes 1.0 page 5-2).
An Apple-Double
format file is similar to an Apple-Single file except that it consists 
of two separate parts:  the data fork is
stored with the base name; and the resource/finder part is stored in
a file with the base name prefixed by the '%' character.
.PP
.I cvt2apple 
by default makes Apple-Single format files.
If the
.I \-d
option is specified then an Apple-Double format file is created. This should 
normally be used for data files or for applications that write to their 
data forks.
.PP
To copy a Macintosh file so it can be used under A/UX, first mount an AUFS
volume from the destination A/UX system on the source Macintosh;
next drag the application you want to run into that filesystem;
and finally, on the destination A/UX machine run
.I cvt2apple
to convert the CAP file to a launchable Apple format file.
.SH NOTES
.I cvt2apple
does not create Icon, real-name, or file-info records in Apple format
files.
As most Mac files contain their own icon information, this
is probably not a problem.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Campbell
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AUFS(1), AUFS(8), CAP(8)
