.TH instappl 1 "26 July 1990" "Columbia University"
.SH NAME
instappl \- install a UNIX generated file consisting of a Macintosh resource fork into an AUFS volume.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B instappl
[
.BI \-c " <creator>"
] [
.BI \-t " <type>"
] [
.B \-l
.B \-m
] [
.B \-i
]
.I <inputfile> <directory>
.RI [ <name> ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I instappl
is a UNIX program to install a file consisting of a
Macintosh resource fork (e.g., a downloaded Macintosh application) into an
.I AUFS
AppleShare volume on the same UNIX host.
The 
.I AUFS
volume must be one that has been configured to store 
Macintosh files and applications (see AUFS(1)).
.I AUFS
stores the three "forks" of a Macintosh file into separate UNIX files.
A file consisting of only a data fork resembles a UNIX stream file 
and can be copied directly into the
.I AUFS
directory.
A file that consists of a Macintosh resource fork
cannot be simply copied into the
.I AUFS
volume directory.
Finder information must also be set so that this file will be recognized
as an application when the
.I AUFS
volume is accessed by a Macintosh.
.I instappl
correctly installs the file consisting of a resource fork, creating
a null data fork and correct finder information.
It allows you to set the Macintosh creator and filetype with the
.I \-c
and
.I \-t
options.
Additional file attributes can be set with the
.IR "\-l, \-m," " and " \-i
options.
.SH REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I <inputfile>
specifies the path name of the input resource fork file that is to be 
installed in
the
.I AUFS
volume.
.TP
.I <directory>
specifies the path name of the
.I AUFS
volume directory where the file will be installed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <name>
By default, the name to be used by
.I AUFS
when it serves this file to a Macintosh client is
simply the last component of the input file name.
If you wish it be different than that,
then specify the desired name as an optional argument.
.TP
.BI -c " <creator>"
specify a one to four character string to be used to set the Macintosh 
creator value for this file.
The default value is "????" (unknown).
.TP
.BI -t " <type>"
specify a one to four character string to be used to set the Macintosh
file type value for this file.
The default value is "APPL" (application).
.TP
.B \-l
sets the read-only (or locked) attribute for the file.
.TP
.B \-m
sets the multi-user attribute for the file.
.TP
.B \-i
sets the invisibile attribute for the file.
.SH SEE ALSO
AUFS(1), AUFS(8), CAP(3), CAP(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Manual entry by Phil Farrell, Stanford University School of Earth Sciences
