.TH lwrename 8L "17 Dec 1993" "Stanford Earth Sciences"
.SH NAME
lwrename \- daemon to hide printers on AppleTalk network by resetting 
	   AppleTalk type value.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lwrename
.RI "[\-t "  minutes ]
[\-s] [\-r]
.RI [ lwrenamefile ]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BI "\-t " minutes
Specify how many integer minutes to sleep in between each 
sweep of the network looking for the monitored printers.
Default=2 minutes.
.TP
.B \-s
Do not run as a background daemon.
Only make a single sweep looking for and changing type on monitored
printers; wait the sleep time; reset printers to original types if
"\-r" option also specified; and exit.
Use for testing.
.TP
.B \-r
If running a single sweep with \-s option, first reset printers to 
original types before exiting.
No effect unless \-s also specified.
Use for testing.
To make a normal
.I lwrename
background daemon reset printers and exit, send it the HUP signal.
.TP
.I lwrenamefile
Pathname of the file containing the list of printers to be monitored
(see format below).  
Default=LWRENAMEFILE compile-time flag or "/etc/lwrename.list" if no
compile-time flag.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lwrename
is part of the CAP software for AppleTalk network access from 
UNIX systems.
It is used by a UNIX host to "capture" LaserWriter (or equivalent
PostScript) printers on the network so that they are not directly
visible to Macintosh or other computers on the network.
Then an
.I lwsrv
daemon on the UNIX host can advertise the printer and create a spooler
for it.
This is particularly useful if you are using one of the authentication
options in
.I lwsrv
to restrict access to the printer or provide accounting by user name.
To capture the printer, you must send the appropriate PostScript code
to it to change its network type value to something other than
"LaserWriter".
Then it cannot be seen by the Macintosh, at least not with standard
printer drivers.
This is no protection against hackers who know how to modify the
Macintosh driver with ResEdit, etc.
.PP
Unfortunately, many printers store changes to their network type
in ordinary RAM that gets reset back to the default "LaserWriter" after
every power cycle.
For these printers, sending the appropriate PostScript code once is
not good enough.
You have to keep checking to see if the printer has reverted to its
default type and then rename it again.
.PP
.I lwrename
runs as a daemon process to automate this checking and renaming for you.
It periodically queries the AppleTalk network looking for any of a set
of PostScript printers listed in a file.
Whenever it finds one of these printers under its original
AppleTalk type of "LaserWriter" (or other type specified in the
file), it sends the appropriate PostScript code to rename the printer
to a new type that you specify in the file (or a default type
compiled into the program -- see below).
This way, after a printer power cycle resets the AppleTalk type
back to the default,
.I lwrename
will quickly find it and reset it to the "captured" value.
.PP
The list of printers to be monitored is stored in a file.
The pathname of this file can be given as an optional command line
argument; if no argument is given, the compile-time option LWRENAMEFILE
will be used as the pathname, or the name "/etc/lwrename.list" if that
option was not specified at compile time.
Comment lines are allowed in this file; start them with the # character.
One line defines each printer; tab characters are used to parse the
line into three fields.  The third field is optional; if you omit it,
be sure also to omit the tab character before it.  The format for
each printer description line is:
.br
	password<tab>printer_NBP_name<tab>newtype
.br
Password is an integer value, either the factory default of 0, or a
value you have previously set by another means.
Printer_NBP_name is the full NBP name needed to find the printer on the
network, with its original (default) type, in this format:
.br
	name:type@zone
.br
Use * for the current or default zone.
Newtype is an optional third field specifying the new AppleTalk type to
be used when renaming the printer.  If you omit this field, be sure
to omit the tab before it.
WARNING:  any trailing blanks on the line after "newtype"
will be interpreted as part of the type name!
If newtype is not specified for a particular printer, it reverts to the
compile-time option LWRENAMETYPE, or to "LaserShared" if that option
was not specified at compile time.
.PP
When first started,
.I lwrename
will automatically fork itself into the background, unless the
"\-s" flag is specified (for testing).
It will sleep between each network "sweep" for the number of 
minutes specified in the optional "\-t" argument, or for two minutes
if no argument is given.
It runs forever until killed, unless you specify the "\-s" flag
to run one sweep only for testing.
If you send it the HUP signal (or if you specify the "\-r" flag with
the "\-s" flag), it will first restore the original type to all of the
printers it is monitoring before exiting.
Any other kill signal just kills it without resetting any printer types.
.PP
.I lwrename
does not need to run from the root account, although you may
want to so restrict it to prevent private users from battling to
control printers on the network.
If your AppleTalk access method requires special privilege (e.g., the
packetfilter under Ultrix), make sure
.I lwrename
executes under the appropriate user or group.
Also, if you have set printer passwords, you probably want to change
permissions on the printer list file to limit read access to the
root or manager account.
Generally, you would start
.I lwrename
from your
.I start\-cap\-servers
file.
.SH FILES
/etc/lwrename.list	default location for list of monitored printers
.SH SEE ALSO
CAP(8), atlook(1), lwsrv(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Edward Moy, Workstation Software Support Group, Workstation Support Services,
Information Systems and Technology, University of California.
.PP
Revisions and manual page by Phil Farrell, Stanford University
School of Earth Sciences.
.PP
See source code for copyright and distribution restrictions.
.SH BUGS
There is no error checking for correct syntax in the list of printers,
except to verify that at least one tab is present to separate the
required first and second fields.
Be careful or you may get strange results.
.PP
There is no way to dynamically update the list of printers to be
monitored by
.I lwrename.
To change the printer list, kill
.I lwrename
with the HUP signal (to restore the current list of printers to
original type); edit the list; and then restart
.I lwrename.
