.TH lwsrv 8 "24 July 1990" "Columbia University"
.SH NAME
lwsrv \- simple LaserWriter spooling agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lwsrv
.BI \-n " <object>"
.BI \-p " <printer queue>"
.BI \-a " <dictionary directory>"
.BI \-f " <FontFile>"
[
.BI \-e
] [
.BI \-h
] [
.BI \-k
] [
.BI \-A " < on | off >"
] [
.BI \-S
] [
.BI \-T " < crtolf | quote8bit | makenondscconformant >"
] [
.BI \-X " < directory name >"
] [
.BI \-L<lprArg>
] [
.BI \-N
] [
.BI \-P
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lwsrv
is a multi-threaded LaserWriter spooler (e.g. multiple incoming jobs
are allowed) that advertises itself on the AppleTalk internetwork and
accepts print jobs from Macintosh computers as if it were a real
LaserWriter.
.I lwsrv
allows these jobs to be queued for printing via the standard Berkeley
lpd spooling software (it is easily modified for other systems).
.I lwsrv
assumes that it is spooling for a particular type of LaserWriter printer as
defined by an input file that specifies the font coordination list.
.PP
A generic problem with
LaserWriter spoolers is that the proper Apple dictionary must be
downloaded to the LaserWriter.  An Apple dictionary is the "prologue"
code termed a "Procedure Set" or "ProcSet", sent by the LaserWriter
driver on a Macintosh (contained in
LaserPrep), that defines a "set" of routines for use by Macintosh
applications.
.PP
.I lwsrv
attempts to resolve this problem by inserting the proper dictionary in the
incoming jobs before spooling them.
Unfortunately,
.I lwsrv
does not know about these ProcSets a priori.  They must be supplied
to it, though it does attempt to retrieve them from the client.
.PP
.I lwsrv
will be able to record an unknown ProcSet if it follows Version 2 of the
.I
Adobe Systems PostScript Document Structuring Conventions (DSC).
Any Apple LaserPrep of
version 4.0 or higher should do this.  (Warning: the ProcSet as
uploaded is not usable unless the "-e" flag is used, cf. Installation
instructions).
.PP
With System 7.0, the handling of ProcSets changes somewhat. If you wish to
use lwsrv with System 7.0 Printer Drivers, you should run lwsrv with the -N
option. This causes lwsrv to not capture new ProcSets but to pass them
through unedited. If edited ProcSets for earlier versions of the Printer Drivers
are found, they will used where appropriate (edited System 7.0 Procsets from
lwsrv sessions without -N should be removed). The result is that lwsrv can
be used successfully in a mixed driver environment without the necessity of
having the printer reinitialized each time.
.PP
.I lwsrv
is normally started automatically at boot time from /etc/rc.local.
Unless debug flags are set, it will automatically put itself into 
the background to run as a daemon.
.SH REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.TP 10
.BI \-n " <object>"
is used to specify the printer name that will be registered (e.g. that
will show up in Chooser).  It may be up to 31 characters long.
.TP 10
.BI \-p " <printer queue>"
specifies the name of the Unix printer queue to which lwsrv will send the
spooled print requests.  <printer queue> should exist in
/etc/printcap. Multiple pairs of \-n and \-p flags can be used to provide
multiple printer queues per lwsrv process.
.TP 10
.BI \-a " <dictionary directory>"
specifies the name of the directory that will hold the various
Procedure Sets (of which an AppleDict in a LaserPrep is a particular
instance).  The first line of a ProcSet must be
"%%BeginProcSet: <procsetname>".  In addition,
unknown ProcSets will be recorded in this directory if possible.
Received ProcSets will probably require some editing.
.TP 10
.BI \-f " <FontFile>"
specifies the file that contains a Font Coordination List.  It
essentially tells the Macintosh or other devices spooling to
.I lwsrv
what fonts exist on the actual print device.
Sample FontFiles are included with the source distribution.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-e
tells lwsrv that it should allow an "eexec" to occur in a
ProcSet.  This option may cause problems!  See the lwsrv 
source distribution README file
for more information.
.TP 10
.B \-h
means to suppress the printing of the burst or banner page 
by passing the "-h" option to
.I lpr
when printing the spooled file.
.TP 10
.BI \-k
specifies that DDP checksums are not to be used, the field is set to zero.
.TP 10
.BI \-C " <Spool Command>"
specifies an alternate print spooler, the default is normally "/usr/ucb/lpr"
or "/usr/bin/lp".
.TP 10
.BI \-A " <" "on | off" >
defines whether lwsrv should suppose that all client programs speaking
to it will properly follow the Adobe Document Structuring Convention
version 2.0.  For now, all it really does is define where the
procedure set definitions are loaded.  Turning this on, when there is
a client program that doesn't quite follow the conventions, may cause
the procedure set not to be loaded or to be loaded in the wrong place.
(Specifically, it looks for an IncludeProcSet instruction).
The default value is set at installation time (see LOCAL CONFIGURATION
section, below).
.TP 10
.B \-S
tells lwsrv that it should run in a single fork.  Normally, lwsrv
forks off a child to deal with each print request to minimize
contention.  Unfortunately, status information returned to the client
programs is not as detailed when lwsrv is running multiforking.
.TP 10
.BI \-N
tells lwsrv to not collect new ProcSets. This is required for use with
System 7.0 (see above).
.TP 10
.BI \-P
specifies that no Adobe pre-processing be carried out. Use this option on a
print spooler dedicated to PC printing.
.TP 10
.BI \-T " <" "crtolf | quote8bit | makenondscconformant" >
are TransScript compatibility options.  Since the names are so long,
spaces, hyphens (-), underscores (_), and tabs are allowed to 
enhance readability, for example:
.nf
	-T "cr to lf" -T "quote 8-bit"
.fi
.RS 10
.TP 10 
.B quote8bit
is used to quote 8
bit characters since TransScript masks characters to 7 bits.  Warning:
this could potentially cause problems if the PostScript interpreter
does not decode the quoted characters in some circumstances.
.TP 10
.B crtolf
is used to translate the Macintosh end of line terminator CR (carriage
return) to the UNIX end of line terminator LF (line feed).  This is
necessary if the spooled file will be run through TranScript filters
like 
.I psrv
or
.I psrev
that assume the UNIX end of line terminator.  Warning: this can
potentially cause problems with binary data streams.
.TP 10
.B makenondscconformant
should be used when 
.I lwsrv
is spooling to a UNIX printer queue that filters files through
.I psrv
(a page reversal filter).
This is standard for serial
TranScript printers and may have been configured that way for 
.I papif.
This option causes the printed file to be prepended with a line
containing "%!" so that it looks like it does not conform to the DSC.
The problem is that in version 2.0 of TranScript
.I psrv
leaves out part of the file when handling DSC version 2.0 documents.
.RE
.TP 10
.BI \-X " <directory name>"
(must be specifically included with -DLWSRV_AUFS_SECURITY at compile time)
is used to allow access control such that only those users who have mounted an
.I aufs
volume will be able to print via the spooler.
The directory specified will be used to access temporary information
stored there by
.I aufs.
That information is used by lwsrv to control who has permission to access
the printer being spooled for. The Berkeley
.I lpr
program is invoked as the user that was specified when logging in through
.I aufs.
.I Aufs
must also be started with the
.BI \-X
option, and the same directory, otherwise no one will have access to the spooler.
Generally, /tmp is the directory used. See the
.I aufs (8)
man page for the setup requirements for the directory if you are not using /tmp.
.TP 10
.BI \-L<lprArg>
passes <lprArg> directly to lpr. Typically used to specify the \-l option
to allow gray scale PostScript to be printed. Note: there is no space
between the -L and the lpr argument.
.SH DEBUGGING OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-r
keeps the file spooled from the Macintosh for inspection
instead of removing it after printing. 
.TP 10
.BI \-t " <TraceFile>"
is used to record all data received from the remote side in
<TraceFile>.  The remote side is also forced to send any ProcSets
used.  The result is not printed.
.TP 10
.BI \-l " <LogFile>"
is used to specify an activity log file.
.TP 10
.BI \-d " <cap debug flags>"
can be used to specify standard cap library debugging flags.  See
CAP(3) for valid flags.
.SH EXAMPLE
For example, to publish a LaserWriter spooler "Laser" that prints on the UNIX
printer "ps" with Procedure sets recorded in /usr/lib/adicts and using
the font coordination list /usr/lib/LW+Fonts, you would start 
.I lwsrv
as follows:
.nf
.I
	lwsrv -n Laser -p ps -a /usr/lib/adicts -f /usr/lib/LW+Fonts
.fi
.SH LOCAL CONFIGURATION

.SH NOTES
The Apple LaserPrep ProcSets (dictionaries) are not supplied
in the CAP distribution
as they are copyrighted property of Apple Computer. 
.PP
There are a number of "font list files" that are used in the dialog
with the spooling client.  These tell the client (Macintosh) what
fonts are available on the "supposed" printer.
The laser font files supplied may not work for all LaserPreps.  They
are known to work for LaserPreps 3.0 through 4.0.
.SH BUGS
.I lwsrv
cannot properly update the status message.
When printing from a
Macintosh, you will see the message "Starting job" until it completes.
.SH FILES
Sample font list files in the CAP distribution:
.nf
.ta \w'extras/LWPlusFonts     'u
extras/LWFonts	fontfile list for LaserWriter
extras/LWPlusFonts	fontfile list for LaserWriter Plus
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
lwsrv was written by Bill Schilit, Computer Science Department,
and Charlie C. Kim, User Services, Columbia University
.SH SEE ALSO
atis(8), CAP(3), CAP(8), lpr(1), papif(8)
