.TH papif 8 "24 July 1990" "Columbia University"
.SH NAME
papif, papof \- printer system input and output filters for printing to AppleTalk LaserWriters
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I papif
and
.I papof
are input and output filters, respectively, for the Berkeley line
printer spooling system (see the section "Line Printer Spooling
System" below for definition of these terms and some explanation),
that print to a LaserWriter (or other PostScript printer) attached to
an AppleTalk network (see CAP(8)).
.I papif
is actually the "formatted text" input filter, but may also be used to
"backend" other input filters.
.I papof
simply creates a PostScript format banner page for use by 
.I papif.
.PP
.I papif
has functionality similar to that of 
.I pscomm
in Adobe's TranScript package.  TranScript provides support for
spooling to a LaserWriter via a serial line.   
.I papif
can be used in most
cases as a replacement for
.I pscomm
when a printer is attached to AppleTalk instead of a serial line.
.PP
When
.I papif
is used in conjunction with TranScript, two special TranScript filters
.I psrv
and 
.I pstext
may be used to reverse the order in which pages are printed
and convert plain text files to PostScript, respectively.  
If 
.I pstext
is used
.I papif
decides to invoke pstext if the first two characters in the file are
not the PostScript magic sequence "%!".
If
.I psrev
is used, then the first 11 characters must be "%!PS-Adobe-".  All
files conforming to the Adobe Document Structuring Convention
(required for 
.I psrv
to work properly) must start with that sequence.
.I papif
will work properly even if the input is a pipe.
.PP
A particular printer is established as usable under the Berkeley line
printer spooling system by installing an entry in /etc/printcap (see
printcap(8)).  Unfortunately, there is no printcap entry field that allows
one to easily specify the NBP entity name of the AppleTalk printer
(the name that shows up in Chooser).  To bypass this problem, 
.I papif
translates the UNIX printer name to the NBP entity name by the use of
a lookaside file called "cap.printers".  The format of cap.printers is
described in the section "cap.printers format", below.
.PP
The Berkeley line printer daemon does not pass the UNIX printer queue 
name as an argument to printing filters.
.I papif
needs to know
which UNIX printer queue it is servicing, so it can map to the NBP 
entity name via cap.printers.
.I papif
will determine the printer queue name from any of these methods:
.RS 5
.TP 5
1)
It will use the value passed by a "-P" or "-p" command line option.
This can be arranged by creating a shell script to be specified in
the /etc/printcap file as the "if" filter.
This script would in turn just call
.I papif,
passing all the arguments it received from lpd, plus the "-P printer-name"
argument.
The shell script can either have a fixed value
for the "-P" switch or try to figure it out.
For example, lpd always
forks off the input filter in the spool directory of the printer, so
if the spool directory has a name matching the UNIX printer name, then
this value could be used - this is the method used by TranScript.
If the system already has TranScript or is licensed for TranScript, then
the shell scripts provided with TranScript are very good.
.TP 5
2)
If argv[0] (the name it is invoked by on the command line) is neither
.I papif
nor
.I psif,
then that name will be used as the printer queue
name.
This can be arranged, for example, by renaming
.I papif
to the queue name, or making a hard or symbolic link with the queue name,
and then specifying that name as the "if" filter in the /etc/printcap file.
.TP 5
3)
The PRINTER environment variable can be set to the queue name, for example,
by an "if" shell script filter.
.RE
If none of these methods is used to set the printer queue name, then
.I papif
will assume that the NBP entity name is "LaserWriter
Plus:LaserWriter@*" (LaserWriter named "LaserWriter Plus" in the local
zone).
See the section "Example printcap entries" for an example printcap entry.
.PP
If the printer name ends in -dup* (e.g. has a name such as lw-dup or
lj-duplex), and papif was compiled with the DUPLEXMODE option, papif will
assume that this printer has the capability to print on both sides of a
page.  The printer is then directed (by the addition of some PostScript
code) to use this ability.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.I papif
accepts the following arguments, most of which are supplied by the 
printer system daemon, lpd:
.TP 10
.BI \-n " <user name>"
is a standard lpd argument specifying the user name.
.TP 10
.BI \-h " <host name>"
is a standard lpd argument specifying the name of the host from which
the print job was submitted.
.TP 10
.B \-c, \-x, \-y, \-i, \-w
are standard lpd arguments which are ignored.
.TP 10
.B \-L
is a Rutgers added option to specify landscape mode printing.
.TP 10
.BI \-P " <UNIX printer name>"
is a TranScript compatible option that specifies the UNIX printer name.
.TP 10
.BI \-2
directs the printer to print this job in 2-sided mode.  Only use this if
your printer has the hardware to support this.  This switch only exists
if papif has been compiled with the DUPLEXMODE feature.
.TP 10
.BI \-p " <program name>"
is a TranScript compatible option that specifies the program name.
.TP 10
.B \-r
is a TranScript compatible option that says never to invoke the page
reversal filter.
.TP 10
.BI \-k
specifies that DDP checksums are not to be used, the field is set to zero.
.TP 10
.I <accounting file name>
An argument without a leading hyphen (-) is assumed to be the
accounting file name.
.TP 10
.BI \-d " <debug args>"
is used to specify the
.B CAP
library debugging arguments.  (No spaces allowed between the
.I \-d
and the flags).
See CAP(3) for valid flags.
.PP
In addition, a number of environment variables may be set to modify
.I papif
operating parameters.
Most of these can and should be customized when compiling 
.I papif
(cf. installation instructions) rather than at runtime.
The LOCAL CONFIGURATION section, below, should specify the values
that have been compiled into
.I papif
at this site.
The first group are TranScript compatibility options (e.g. used by
TranScript).  Most of these options are "binary" in that setting them
to 0 means off and non-zero means on.
.TP
.I BANNERFIRST
if set, says to print the banner first.
.TP
.I BANNERLAST
If set, says to printer the banner last.  BANNERFIRST overrides
BANNERLAST.
.TP
.I CHARGEBANNER
is a papif specific binary option.  If set, banner pages
will be charged to the user if accounting is being done.
.PP
Note if you wish to define banner pages as on, you must have an
"of" output filter defined in /etc/printcap that presents a ".banner"
file in PostScript format.
CAP includes a filter 
.I papof
that accomplishes this.  You should also
be able to use the standard TranScript filter for this as well.
.TP
.I VERBOSELOG
If set, tells papif to be a little more verbose in its logging.  This
is the default.
.TP
.I REVERSE
a string containing the location of the page reversal filter.  This is a
standard part of TranScript.
.TP
.I PSTEXT
a string containing the location of the text filter that translates plain
text to PostScript.  This is a standard part of TranScript.
.PP
Here are a number of non-TranScript options settable in the environment.
.TP
.I ADOBE_STRUCTURED
PAPIF has a minimal understanding of the Adobe Systems Document
Structuring Conventions (to wit, it understands the "%%EOF" marker).
Setting ADOBE_STRUCTURED to be true implies that it should try to
interpret the incoming document.
.TP
.I IDLESTUFF
Some sites have reported seeing an "idle" bug where papif doesn't do
anything while the LaserWriter is idle.  You can define "IDLESTUFF"
when compiling papif to enable some code to get around this problem.
Note: with the new release of papif, this problem shouldn't be there
anymore, but it is included just in case.
.TP
.I SFLOWQ, RFLOWQ
.I papif
has a settable "Send Flow Quantum multiplier" called SFLOWQ that
tells how many packets it should be sending in a single write.  This
should be set to 1 (maximum 8) if there are problems with the FastPath or
LaserWriter dropping packets.
RFLOWQ is the same thing but in the other direction.  You can probably
leave it set to 8 (the maximum).
.TP
.I ATPRESPONSETIMEOUT
specifies the ATP response cache timeout in
ticks (1/4 second intervals).  (Note: zero is infinity: it never times
out).  This is used to extend the time that a response from the
LaserWriter may take.
.TP
.I WATCHTIME
specifies the minimum interval in seconds that
will take place
before
.I papif
polls the LaserWriter for its status (and updates the
status file in the spool directory).  Zero implies that no status
watching should be done.
.TP
.I DEBUG
if set, tells
.I papif
that is should print out debugging information giving the state of the
environment variables, etc.
.TP
.I STRIPCONTROLD
if set, tells
.I papif
that it should map control-d's to a line feed.  Danger: this may cause
problems with binary files.
.TP
.I MAPCRTOLF
if set, tells
.I papif
that it should map carriage returns to line feeds.  This option is
useful when printing Macintosh files.  (It is preferrable to make
.I lwsrv
do this mapping if possible).  Danger: this may cause
problems with binary files.
.TP
.I CAPPRINTERS
a string containing the name of
an alternate cap.printers file for mapping printer queue name
to LaserWriter NBP network name.
.TP
.I JOBOUTPUT
a string containing the name of a file to get a copy of the 
.I papif
logging messages.  This is useful when using
.I lp
and the TranScript interfaces under a System V style machine.
.TP
.I BANNER
a string containing the name of a banner file other than ".banner".
This is useful when using
.I lp
and the TranScript interfaces under a System V style machine.
.TP
.I DOACCT
if set, turns on page accounting.  No accounting will be
done even if set unless an accounting file is specified as an
argument to papif (e.g., the "af" field is set in /etc/printcap).
.TP
.I PSJOBHEADER
if set, specifies a file that contains PostScript code to be sent to
the printer before the print job.  Uses include manipulating printer
features such as duplex mode, paper tray control and so on (this
option must be specified at compile time by enabling the PSJOBHEADER
option at Configure time).
.SH Line Printer Spooling System
Technically, an output filter is used to massage output from a filter.
However,
.I papof
only accepts the banner from lpd and converts it to PostScript for use
by the input filter.
.PP
An input filter takes certain types of input and has the
responsibility for actually sending it to the printer.  Common
types of input are formatted text ("if"), graphics (plot(3x)) input ("gf"),
etc.  
.I papif
was originally designed as the "if" or formatted text
input filter and hence its name.  It can also be used in combination
with other programs, such as those provided with Adobe's TranScript
package that take a particular type of input and convert them into
PostScript format by simply piping the output of those "filters" into
.I papif.
In other words, 
.I papif
can be used as the "active" backend
for various filters.  Its role is equivalent to that of
.I pscomm
in the TranScript package.
.SH "Example printcap entries"
A printcap entry for a system without TranScript would look something
like:
.sp
.nf
      ps:LaserWriter:A sample LaserWriter printer:\\ # printer name
	 :lp=/dev/ps:\\			# spool device
	 :sd=/usr/spool/lpd/ps:\\	# spool directory
	 :pl#72:pw#85:\\		# page length and width
	 :sf:\\				# suppress form feeds
	 :lf=/usr/adm/ps-errs:\\	# log file
	 :af=/usr/adm/ps.acct:\\	# accounting file
	 :if=/usr/local/lib/cap/ps:\\	# input filter
	 :of=/usr/local/lib/cap/papof:	# output filter
.fi
.sp
The spool device (:lp=) is not used, but
some systems may do locking on it, so it may need to be
unique.  Just create a unique null file.
"/usr/local/lib/cap/ps" could be a copy of papif
compiled with the defaults required or it could be a shell script as such:
.sp
.nf
	#!/bin/sh
	BANNERLAST=1
	PSTEXT=/usr/local/lib/ps/pstext
	export BANNERLAST PSTEXT
	# pass the printer name and the arguments lpd passed us
	/usr/local/cap/papif -P ps $*
.fi
.sp
.I papof
is the supplied output filter.
The accounting file and log file must be created by hand if
accounting or logging is desired.  The page length and width are
probably only
required if pstext is used.
.PP
A TranScript printer entry should be installed with the aid of
TranScript.  One point to be careful of is that TranScript's "psof"
filter assumes that "sb" (or short banner) has been defined.
.I papof
works with "sb" on, but is designed for use without "sb" defined.
.SH "cap.printers format"
Cap.printers is used to map UNIX printer queue names to LaserWriter 
NBP network names.  It consists of a series of lines, each specifying
a single mapping.  Multiple lines may map the various aliases of a 
UNIX printer queue to the same NBP name.  Lines beginning with the 
pound sign (#) are comment lines.
.PP
Each mapping line contains the  "UNIX printer name" without spaces followed
by an "=" character and the exact NBP entity name.  There can be no 
extraneous spaces!  Please note that due to a bug in the Apple "Namer" 
program, under certain conditions, a blank space may be added to the 
end of the name you set for the LaserWriter with that program.  
If that happens, this extra blank space must be included in the 
cap.printers entry (just before the ":").  It is best to use the CAP
.I
atlook
program to confirm the exact printer NBP entity name.
For example:
.nf
	ps=ALaserWriter:LaserWriter@SomeZone
.fi

See the sample cap.printers file
in the 
.I papif
distribution directory for more examples.
.SH LP
.I papif
should work with the appropriate shell script surrounding it under the
UNIX System V "lp" spooling system.  In particular, it
is known to work under
Release 1 of
.I A/UX
from Apple Computer.  See the README file in the 
.I papif
source directory for more information.
.SH LOCAL CONFIGURATION

.SH NOTES
.I papif
TranScript is available under license from Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.SH BUGS
.I papif
has changed considerably since the idle code was added and the idle code
may no longer work properly.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'/etc/cap.printers     'u
/etc/printcap
/etc/cap.printers	(location is settable)
\&.status	lpd status file
newstatus	papif status temporary file
\&.banner	lpd banner file
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Charlie C. Kim, User Services Group, Center for Computing Activities,
Columbia University
.SH "SEE ALSO"
CAP(3), CAP(8), printcap(8), lpd(8), lwsrv(8), atlook(1), transcript(8)

