.TH SNITCH 1 "21 Mar 1988" "Carnegie-Mellon University"
.SH NAME
snitch \- respond to AppleTalk Inter\(buPoll requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snitch
[
.BI \-d " <cap-flags>"
] [
.BI \-n " <name>"
] [
.BI \-t " <type>"
] [
.BI \-f " <finderstring>"
] [
.BI \-l " <laserwriterstring>"
] [
.BI \-D n
] [
.B \-S
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I snitch
is a CAP program designed to run as a daemon to respond to Inter\(buPoll
requests.
It performs the same function as the "Responder" program on a Macintosh.
It registers itself as "name:type@*" via NBP, where 'name' defaults
to the host name (without the domain) and 'type' defaults to "UNIX/CAP".
You can override the default NBP name values with the 
.I \-n
and
.I \-t
options.
The response packets that are sent back to Inter\(buPoll try to have useful
information about the machine you are running on and the version of CAP.
You can override this information with the
.I \-f
and
.I \-l
options.
.PP
The kinds of packets that
.I snitch
sends back are only meaningful to
Inter\(buPoll, at least for now.  Also, the packet format is not documented by
Apple, so it currently is an educated guess.
.PP
To kill a
.I snitch
process cleanly, send the process a QUIT or TERM signal.
It will nbp_delete itself (as all nbp services should).
.PP
To really make this work with Inter\(buPoll, you want to modify your copy
of Inter\(buPoll on the Macintosh (with ResEdit or similar program) to
add the string "UNIX/CAP" (or your snitchtype) to the STR# resource
that specifies the kinds of expected machine types.
The first item in that STR# is a number that 
indicates the number of following valid entries - add one to it and then
add "UNIX/CAP" at the end.  The string list is STR# "NIP Devices".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-d " <cap-flags>"
specifies standard CAP debugging flags.  See cap(3) for a list of valid
flag values.
.TP 10
.BI \-n " <name>"
specifies the NBP entity name to be used when registering
.I snitch
on the AppleTalk network.  The default value is the UNIX machine host
name without the domain qualifiers.
.TP 10
.BI \-t " <type>"
specifies the NBP entity type to be used when registering
.I snitch
on the AppleTalk network.  The default value is "UNIX/CAP".
.TP 10
.BI \-f " <finderstring>"
<finderstring> is a character string
that will be passed to Inter\(buPoll
to be displayed as the "Finder" version for the UNIX host.
You might use this to specify UNIX and CAP versions, for example.
The string must be no more than 100 characters long (actually, Inter\(buPoll
will only display about 60 characters) and enclosed in quotes if it contains
embedded blanks or special characters.
.TP 10
.BI \-l " <laserwriterstring>"
like the 
.I \-f
option, but this string will be displayed by Inter\(buPoll as the 
"LaserWriter" driver version.
.TP 10
.BI \-D n
Set 
.I snitch
debugging level to
.I n.
Valid values are 1 for basic debugging messages and 2 for additional
dumps of user data.  Writes to stderr.
.TP 10
.BI \-S
Tells
.I snitch
to disassociate from the terminal (like starting
.I snitch
in the background).
.SH FILES
Uses the cap file "atalk.local", usually in /etc.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
CAP(8), atis(8), cap(3)
.SH EXAMPLE
snitch -n "myCapMachine" -S
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Are written to stderr if any debugging switches are on.
If you use the "-S" switch, you won't see anything.
.SH BUGS
Only works with Inter\(buPoll by chance, might not work with future versions.
.SH AUTHOR
Ravinder Chandhok, Carnegie-Mellon University
