.TH MCVERT LOCAL "May 5, 1987"
.UC 4.2
.SH NAME
mcvert \- BinHex 4.0 to MacBinary file conversion utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcvert
[-options] name... [[-options] name...]...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I mcvert
program translates MacIntosh files from one format to another.
The primary formats in which MacIntosh files are represented on non-Macs are:
.TP
.B MacBinary:
An eight bit wide representation of the data and resource forks of a Mac
file and of relevant Finder information, MacBinary files are recognized
as "special" by several MacIntosh terminal emulators.  These emulators,
using Kermit or Xmodem or any other file transfer protocol, can separate
the incoming file into forks and appropriately modify the Desktop to display
icons, types, creation dates, and the like.
.TP
.B BinHex 4.0:
A seven bit wide representation of a Mac file with CRC error checking,
BinHex 4.0 files are designed for communication of Mac files over long
distance, possibly noisy, seven bit wide paths.
.TP
.B PackIt:
PackIt files are actually representations of collections of Mac files, possibly
Huffman compressed.  Packing many small related files together before
a MacBinary transfer or a translation to BinHex 4.0 is common practice.
.TP
.B Text:
A MacIntosh ends each line of a plain text file with a carriage return
character (^M), rather than the newline character (^J) that some systems
seem to prefer.  Moreover, a MacBinary file has prepended Finder information
that non-MacIntoshes don't need.
.TP
.B Data, Rsrc:
A Data or Rsrc file is the exact copy of the data or resource fork of a
MacIntosh file.
.PP
It is the purpose of this program to convert to the MacBinary format
files in other of the above formats, and vice versa.
.PP
.SH PARAMETERS
Exactly one of the following operations may be specified for an input name:
.TP
.B x
BinHex 4.0 - files in the MacBinary format are translated to BinHex
files, or vice versa.  The name argument may be the name of a file to be
converted or a basename to which an appropriate suffix must be appended
to get a filename.  If the conversion is from Binhex 4.0 to MacBinary,
several files may comprise the BinHex representation of the Mac file.
Rather than manually concatenate the files and manually delete mail
headers and other extraneous garbage, one may specify the names of the
files in order and
.I mcvert
will do the concatenating and deleting.  Conversely, in converting
a MacBinary file to BinHex 4.0 format for mailing over long distances,
one may be restricted to mail messages of no greater that some fixed
length.  In this case,
.I mcvert
can automatically divide the BinHex file into pieces and label each
piece appropriately.
Option 'x' is selected by default.
.TP
.B r
Resource - files in the MacBinary format with empty data forks
and nonempty resource forks are made from ordinary data files, or vice versa.
.TP
.B d
Data - files in the MacBinary format with nonempty data forks
and empty resource forks are made from ordinary data files, or vice versa.
.TP
.B u
Text - files in the MacBinary format with nonempty data forks
and empty resource forks are made from ordinary data files, or vice versa.
Unix newline
characters are interchanged with MacIntosh carriage return
characters, and a newly created MacBinary file has creator field given by
the MAC_EDITOR environment variable.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B p | q
If a BinHex to MacBinary conversion is taking place and option 'p' is selected,
any file of type "PIT "
will be unpacked into its constituent parts.  This option does not recursively
unpack "PIT " files packed in "PIT " files.
If a MacBinary to BinHex conversion is taking place, this option is currently
ignored.  By default, option 'q' is selected.
.TP
.B U | D
When option 'U' is selected, the conversion that takes place is the one suitable
for Uploading files.  That is, the conversion is from MacBinary to something
else when 'U' is selected.  Conversely, option 'D', as in Download,
converts from something to MacBinary.  Option 'D' is the default.
.TP
.B s | v
Normally,
.I mcvert
prints to stderr information about the files it is creating.  Selecting
option 's', as in silent, disables this reporting.  Option 'v', for verbose,
is the default.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
There are four environment variables one may use to customize 
the behavior of
.I mcvert
slightly.
.TP
.B MAC_EDITOR
The creator of MacBinary text files produced with options -uD.  
The default is MACA, the creator type of MacWrite.
.TP
.B MAC_DLOAD_DIR
The MacBinary files created when option -D is selected are placed in this
directory.  The default is ".", the current working directory.
.TP
.B MAC_EXT
The MacBinary files created when option -D is selected are named according
to the filename field stored in the file header, with the name extended by
this suffix.  The default is ".bin".
.TP
.B MAC_LINE_LIMIT
The BinHex files created when option -U is selected may be no longer than
this many lines long.  Files that would otherwise exceed this line limit
are broken up into several files with numbers embedded into their file 
names to show their order.  Each such file has "Start of part x" and "End
of part x" messages included where appropriate.
.SH BUGS
It should be possible to discard bad input now and successfully translate
good input later, but bad input mostly just causes immediate termination.
.PP
A more diligent person would support BinHex 3.0 and BinHex 2.0 and BinHex
5000.0 B. C., but I've never seen anyone use them in three years.  A
more diligent person would also do something for users of macget and
macput, but hopefully someone will make those programs support the
MacBinary file protocol.
.SH SEE ALSO
xbin(1), macget(1), macput(1), xmodem(1), kermit(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Doug Moore, Cornell University Computer Science.  Based upon
.I xbin
by Dave Johnson, Brown University, as modified by Guido van Rossum, and upon
.I unpit
by Allan G. Weber, as well as upon correspondence with several helpful
readers of USENET.

