.TH UNSIT L "Septermber 28, 1988"
.UC
.SH NAME
unsit \- extract/list files in a Macintosh Stuffit archive file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unsit
[
.B \-rdulM
] [
-vqfm
] file
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
For the Stuffit archive file listed, 
.I unsit
extracts the files in the archive into separate files.
This makes it possible, for example, to separate a large StuffIt file
into component files for selective downloading, rather than
downloading the larger archive file just to extract a single, small
file.  It also allows the use of StuffIt to compress a group of files
into a single, smaller archive that can be uploaded to a Unix system
for storage, printing, etc.
.PP
In the normal mode, both the data and the resource forks of the
component Macintosh files in the archive are extracted and stored in
Unix files with the extension
.I .data
and 
.I .rsrc
appended to the end of the Macintosh file name.
In addition, a 
.I .info
file will be created with the Finder information.
These three file are compatible with the
.I macput
program for downloading to a Mac running MacTerminal.  The output files can
also be generated in the MacBinary format which is easier to use if they are to
be sent to the Mac over a network connection using an FTP program.  The
MacBinary format file will have the same name as the file would have on the
Mac.  If only the data or resource fork is extracted, no addition extension is
appended to the Mac file name.  Characters in the Mac file name that are
illegal (or unwieldy, like spaces) are changed to underscores in the Unix file
name.  The true Mac file name is retained internally in the MacBinary file or
in the
.I .info
file and is restored when the file is downloaded.
.PP
StuffIt version 1.5 has the ability to archive a group of files and folders
in such a way that the hierarchical relationship of the files and folders
is maintained.
.I Unsit
version 1.5 can unpack files archived in this manner and place them in
corresponding subdirectories so as to maintain the hierarchy.  As an option,
the hierarcy can be flattened out and all the files stored in the current
directory.
.PP
The options are similar to those for 
.I macput
and
.I unpit.
.TP
.B \-M
Generate output files in MacBinary format instead of the .data, .rsrc,
and .info format.
.TP
.B \-f
For StuffIt files containing a "Hierarchy Maintained Folder" entry, extract the
files into a "flat" organization (all in the current directory) rather than
maintaining the hierarchy by creating new directories, etc.
Default is to maintain the hierarchical folder organization.
.TP
.B \-l
List the files in the archive but do not extract them.  The name, size,
type, and creator of each file is listed.
.TP
.B \-m
Assumes the input file in MacBinary format rather than macput/macget
format and skips over the MacBinary header.
.TP
.B \-r
Extract resources forks only.
.TP
.B \-d
Extract data forks only.
.TP
.B \-u
Extract data fork and change into a Unix text file.
This only works if the file is really a text file.
.TP
.B \-q
Query user before extracting files and folders.  If a "n" answer is given for
a folder, none of the files or folders in that folder will be extracted.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose option.  Causes 
.I unsit
to list name, size, type, and creator of each file extracted.
.SH BUGS
Files that were compressed by StuffIt with the Lempel-Ziv method and are
extracted with the 
.B \-u
switch (text files) are not checked for a correct CRC value when 
.I unsit
uncompresses them.  This is because 
.I unsit
pipes the data through
.I compress
and
.I tr
to extract the file and never has a chance to do the CRC check.
.PP
The
.I compress
program has been observed to go into strange states when uncompressing a 
damaged file.  Often it will get stuck writing out bogus data until the
disk fills up.  Since 
.I unsit
sends data through 
.I compress,
the same problem could occur when extracting files from a damaged Stuffit
archive.
.SH FILES
For archives that have been compressed with the Lempel-Ziv method, the 
.I compress 
program must be present on the system and in the search path since 
.I unsit 
uses it for the uncompressing.
.I Compress
is available from the comp.sources.unix archives.
.SH AUTHOR
Allan G. Weber (weber@sipi.usc.edu)
