.TH UNSTUFFIT L "December 1990"
.UC
.SH NAME
unstuffit \- unpack a Stuffit archive file to CAP aufs files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unstuffit
[
.B \-rdulM
] [
-vqfm
] file ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
For the Stuffit archive(s) file listed, 
.I unstuffit
extracts the files in the archive into separate files.
This makes it possible, for example, to separate a large StuffIt file
into component files for selective downloading, rather than
downloading the larger archive file just to extract a single, small
file.  It also allows the use of StuffIt to compress a group of files
into a single, smaller archive that can be uploaded to a Unix system
for storage, printing, etc.
.PP
.I Unstuffit
stores extracted files in CAP aufs format in the current directory, which
must be a CAP aufs folder.
Characters in the Mac file name that are
illegal (or unwieldy, like spaces) are changed to underscores in the Unix file
name.
.PP
StuffIt version 1.5 has the ability to archive a group of files and folders
in such a way that the hierarchical relationship of the files and folders
is maintained.
.I Unstuffit
version 1.5 can unpack files archived in this manner and place them in
corresponding subdirectories, which it will create in CAP aufs folder format,  so as to maintain the hierarchy.  As an option,
the hierarcy can be flattened out and all the files stored in the current
directory.
.PP
.TP
.B \-f
For StuffIt files containing a "Hierarchy Maintained Folder" entry, extract the
files into a "flat" organization (all in the current directory) rather than
maintaining the hierarchy by creating new directories, etc.
Default is to maintain the hierarchical folder organization.
.TP
.B \-l
List the files in the archive but do not extract them.  The name, size,
type, and creator of each file is listed.
.TP
.B \-m
Assumes the input file in MacBinary format rather than aufs
format and skips over the MacBinary header.
.TP
.B \-r
Extract resources forks only.
.TP
.B \-d
Extract data forks only.
.TP
.B \-q
Query user before extracting files and folders.  If a "n" answer is given for
a folder, none of the files or folders in that folder will be extracted.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose option.  Causes 
.I unstuffit
to list name, size, type, and creator of each file extracted.
.SH BUGS
The
.I compress
program has been observed to go into strange states when uncompressing a 
damaged file.  Often it will get stuck writing out bogus data until the
disk fills up.  Since 
.I unstuffit
sends data through 
.I compress,
the same problem could occur when extracting files from a damaged Stuffit
archive.
.SH FILES
For archives that have been compressed with the Lempel-Ziv method, the 
.I compress 
program must be present on the system and in the search path since 
.I unstuffit 
uses it for the uncompressing.
.I Compress
is available from the comp.sources.unix archives.
.SH AUTHOR
Nigel Perry (np@doc.ic.ac.uk) based upon unsit by
Allan G. Weber (weber@sipi.usc.edu).
